---
layout: "post"
title: "My brush holder is an old shoe"
subtitle: "And it hides a secret!"
active: "journal"
image:
  feature: "shoe1.jpg"
date: "2024-01-16"
header-img: "img/postcover/shoe1.jpg"
comments: "false"
gallery10: 
  - image_path: /img/galleries/g10/shoe1.jpg
    image-caption: Blue shoe
    image-copyright: © imageryhand
  - image_path: /img/galleries/g10/shoe2.jpg
    image-caption: So blue!
    image-copyright: © imageryhand
  - image_path: /img/galleries/g10/shoe3.jpg
    image-caption: Best brush holder ever
    image-copyright: © imageryhand
  - image_path: /img/galleries/g10/shoe4.jpg
    image-caption: Best brush holder ever
    image-copyright: © imageryhand
  - image_path: /img/galleries/g10/leaf.jpg
    image-caption: Hmm, what does it say?
    image-copyright: © imageryhand
  - image_path: /img/galleries/g10/note.jpg
    image-caption: Mysterious note. Can you solve it?
    image-copyright: © imageryhand
---


<html class="no-js" lang="en">
<head>
	<meta content="charset=utf-8">
</head>

    <body>

<section id="content" role="main">
		<div class="wrapper">
	<br><br>
			<h2>{{page.title}}</h2>

<p> I have only recently started to paint in oils again after a long absence from traditional painting. One of the things I've forgotten about since starting to work again in a real-life workspace is that there are too many brushes, but they are all necessary.
There are the great big house painting brushes for blocking in large areas, fine detailing brushes that seem more delicate than a unicorn's eyelash, ones with soft, curving tips made from weasel fur, angled sword and dagger brushes for dueling other painters in aesthetic combat, an army of tough hog bristles that can really push and scumble the paint around the canvas, a pile of cheap synthetics that glide across in lovely smooth strokes, and a complete set of long, magic-wand resembling brushes by Grumbascher that are made from an ox's inner ear hairs. I like to imagine at least one of these fine brushes was handcrafted from enchanted applewood and newborn gryffin's fluff somewhere in rural Ireland by an actual wizard with ancestral ties to Merlyn himself. Note, I did not buy any of these. I found them in my neighbour's recycling bin last summer during one of my walks (1), a lucky find that complemented another "garbage treasure" that I came across a week earlier: a beautiful, tall wooden easel. It was perfect. Lightweight and well crafted, so unlike the one I had back home: shaky, unbalanced on wobbly legs, and in need of repairs. My new easel had a sign taped on it "Free!" and so of course I took it with me. 
</p>

<p> Now I have plenty of jars, buckets, yogurt containers, and old mugs to store my brushes, but I could not resist making a more unique brush holder, one that had some personality to it, and a touch of mystery. A puzzle, or a note in code, perhaps, that could be hidden inside it to be found by someone one day (2) But what to use? An old, discarded leather shoe became my canvas for this little project. I used very cheap acrylic paints which were frustrating because they simply refused to do what I wanted them to and the paint dried in dull shades of beet-brown until I gave it a second coat. There is a saying "It's expensive to be poor", and it's true, cheap paint needs more coats so you'll end up spending more on it than the expensive paint that has more pigment and better coverage. I finished the whole thing in less than half an hour, painting the clouds in a rough impasto glazed by violent shades of purple and orange. The puzzle took longer. I had to plan it, and do some research, but as usual, fun coincidences appeared and so everything came together in about an hour's time using just some watercolour, pencils, ink pen and paper. Below you can find photos of the shoe and the coded note which hides inside. Good luck!  </p>


           <!-- Gallery __-->
			
{% include subgallery.html id="gallery10" %}

<!-- end of GALLERY __ -->

		</div><!-- end of WRAPPER __ -->
	</section>





